---
title: TAMods v0.7 Available Now
authors: mcoot
---

A new major version of TAMods, version 0.7, has now been released and is available via [the TribesLauncher application](https://github.com/mcoot/TribesLauncher/releases).

Read on for a list of major changes, read on!

<!--truncate-->

## Changes

### Weapon Model Customisation

Do you miss the SAP20? Well, it's back - or its weapon model is, at least! You can now swap the first person weapon model of any weapon out for that of any other - including models of the weapons removed in the Out of the Blue update. This can be done via the external configuration tool, the Ubermenu or via the `setWeaponModel` Lua function.

Note that this system isn't quite perfect yet. First, updating model swaps while the game is running often does not work correctly, requiring a relaunch to apply. Second, some weapon animations do not transition correctly, causing the model to be held or animated wrong; this is most noticeable when swapping weapons with others of very different kinds (e.g. a sniper rifle for a pistol). Finally, there are _very_ rare crashes associated with the weapon swapping subsystem, generally occurring when the game ends.

### Stats Recording

TAMods can now record game statistics and give you a summary at the end of a match. With the `recordStats` option enabled, you will now see a printout of your player statistics for the match, including everything from your fastest grab speed to that all important K/D ratio.

The `recordTeamStats` option will also print out information about the whole game - the map, who won, and the names of the players on each time.

Both kinds of statistics can also optionally be logged out to a file (in your T:A config directory) by enabling the `saveStats` and `saveTeamStats` options.

### New HUDModules

The following HUDModules have been added and are now available in the Ubermenu HUD Maker:

- `dodgeKillFeed`
- `dodgeScoreboard`
- `dodgeSpeedBar`
- `indiIFF Healthbars` - alternate healthbars which show the percentage health of players
- `mcootKillNotifications` - an alternate way of displaying player kills, more similar to that of other FPS games
- `mcootRabbitScoreboard`
- `mcootSpeedbars`
- `mcootStats` - an extension of the `sqStats` module which shows information including your current kill streak count
- `mcootVehicleHealthEnergy`

### Developer Documentation

A major change in this release is the comprehensive reference for the TAMods API on this website, accompanied by short tutorials for writing your first TAMods scripts.

### Minor API Improvements

A number of new minor features have been added to the Lua API:

#### Convenience constants

Constant values / enums used throughout the Lua API have been given named constants accessible under the `enums` namespace. Enums have been added for the following kinds of values:

- Team Number
- Equip Points
- Reticule Types
- Chat Channels
- Input Eventtypes
- Kill Types
- Text Alignments

#### New Functions

The following functions have been added to the API:

- `getHud()` - returns a reference to the HUD object, previously accessible only within certain events
- `drawUTTextScaled()` - allows the drawing of text in Unreal Tournament fonts with bitmap scaling applied
- `player.isSkiing()` - returns whether the player is currently skiing
- `vehicle.name()` - Get the name of the vehicle the player is in
- `vehicle.seatName()` - Get the name of the current seat of the vehicle the player is in
- `vehicle.seatIndex()` - Get the index of the seat of the vehicle the player is in
- `vehicle.seatCount()` - Get the number of seats in the vehicle the player is in